[MUSIC]
This lecture will talk about
the client server model and
how you can connect to your Raspberry Pi.
So, running the SSH client,
so if you want to connect
to another machine with SSH, secure shell,
you've got to run the client.
Now right now, for this,
I'm going to assume we're using
a Linux machine to run the client on.
Now, that counts, so you could do this
from Raspberry Pi, which is running Linux,
in LX terminal, or
you could this on any Linux machine.
You can type in the same thing.
Or you can also type into
if you're running a Mac.
With Mac OS, because it is a Linux,
you just start the terminal,
run the terminal program, and
you can type into that terminal.
So any of those machines,
this would be exactly the same procedure.
You're running on Windows, then probably
depending on which secure shell
you're using, say you're using putty,
p, u, t, t, y, if you download that one.
If you run that,
then it's a little bit difference
because to start running the program
you double-click on the program.
It opens up a little window, and then you
type in the same information, user name,
domain name, all that.
But it just looks different, depending.
But right now I'll talk about if you doing
it on a Linux machine or a Mac OS machine.
So you type in the following command,
SSH which is the name of program.
Then you give a username, and
then at and then the domain name.
So the username is your
username on the server machine.
Whatever your username is on
the server you put that there.
That's the left of the at sign.
To the right of the at sign
you give the domain name.
That's the mnemonic, the address for
whatever the server machine's name is.
So for instance, that might be uci.edu.
If that's what I want to connect to.
So note that you have to
have a domain name, and
we'll talk about that in a little bit.
But you have to have a domain name, or
some alternative, or just an IP address.
We'll talk about that.
But this is normally how you use it.
So you give the domain name.
Now the first time you connect
to a particular domain,
it's same on raspberry pi, and
I'm connecting to my machine in my office.
The first time I make the connection
it will give what looks like an error.
It'll say that the address
could not be authenticated.
It always does that the first time.
The first time you do the connection.
because it wants,
once you do it the first time,
once you successfully do it the first
time, it will record that address and
you won't get that comment again.
But the first time it'll say that
the address could not be authenticated.
And then it'll ask you, are you sure
you want to make the connection?
So if you know that that
address is correct.
So if you know uci.edu, let's say,
is where you actually want to connect to,
then you type yes, and
hit enter, and it will continue.
And it'll remember that for the next time.
It stores it in a file.
Now then it'll prompt you for
the password, so
you'll type in whatever the password is.
And after you type in the password, you'll
see exactly what you would see if you were
sitting at the machine,
which will eventually be a prompt.
You'll get a command line prompt, a dollar
sign or whatever the prompt looks like.
And you can type in your commands.
So that's basically what
you expect to happen.
So let me show you what it
looks like when I did it.
So I did this from Raspberry Pi.
So I went to Raspberry Pi,
opened up LXTerminal, and
you can see at the top I
circled in red my command.
So I said secure shell,
ssh harris@openlab.ics.uci.edu.
So that's a machine that I can connect to.
So it says, the authenticity of the host
could not be established, it says.
So that's always what it says first time.
So, it tells me the RSA key fingerprint,
which I have blanked out in red,
because you don't need to see that.
That's my fingerprint.
But then they asked me, are you sure
you want to continue connecting?
So I typed, yes.
You could see that I circled in red.
Then, it says okay,
it's permanently added to my list.
Then notice under that it says, password,
harris@openlab.ics.uci password.
So there, I typed in the password.
Now you don't see the password,
that's invisible.
Doesn't show on the screen.
I typed in and I hit return.
And all the lines under that are what
appears whenever I log in to that machine.
Open Lab, that's the stuff that
just appears in the screen, and
you can't see it because I
didn't have enough space.
But after a bunch of garbage
that it prints at the top,
eventually I get a command line, just a
regular prompt, like a dollar bill prompt.
And I can just type in to the machine and
it would be as if I'm sitting
at Open Lab machines connected.
So this is basically how it goes, and
then I can execute commands remotely.
So the Raspberry Pi has
a secure shell server.
Let's say if you want to connect to
the Raspberry Pi remotely, it's useful to
connect the Raspberry Pi without
the keyboard and monitor, and all that.
Actually, I use it now a lot,
to use my Raspberry Pi.
So, SSH server is running by
default in your Raspberry Pi, so
you don't have to do anything.
You just power it up,
and it'll be running.
You should change the private
host ID keys, OK?
Now what happens, and
we don't want to get too much into
how authentication is performed, because
that's a little out of scope of the class.
But there are these private host ID keys,
and when you get your Raspberry Pi and
install raspi on it,
you get these default keys, which are the
same as everybody else's default keys.
So the problem is if you keep using those
default keys, everybody else knows those
keys, so you can have what's
called a man in the middle attack.
Somebody can listen to your
conversation if they wanted to.
Can, you know, decrypt your communication.
So what you should do is, before you start
using the secure shell server on your
Raspberry Pi, you should execute
the following command there.
All that command, it goes on one line,
I just couldn't fit it on
one line on the screen.
But that's one long command that you
you execute to get a new set of keys.
So you just execute that, and even without
executing that, you can connect to your
Raspberry Pi secure shell server,
but you should for safety's sake.
You should do that before
the first time you connect.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]